---
layout: article
title: "IFTTT"
date: 2014-12-08 17:24:21
categories: hack
---
There are so many services and applications on Internet. And we're spending more and more time using them to get, organize and send information. But the information is forced to be separated.

###1. Why we need IFTTT
The Internet is growing explosively. Within a few years, hundreds and thousands application are accessible to the public. You can get them at a very reasonable price or totally free on your PC and most of the time, your mobile devices, like your smart phone or any kind of wearable device.

Let's take Apps on mobile phone for example, according to statista.com:
>This statistic contains data on the number of apps available for download in leading app stores in July 2014. As of that month, **Android** users were able to choose between **1.3 million** apps. **Apple's App Store** remained the second-largest app store with **1.2 million** available apps.

Suddenly, your personal life is occupied by all these services. You take a picture with your phone, then you will post it on your SNS(at least 2 I guess), but the SNS is operated separately by its owner operator so you have to repeat one action twice. This surly wasted your time. And how many email account do you have?

There're just too many similar apps that we're lost in the sea of services.
 1. Email
 2. SNS
 3. News Feed
 4. Calendar
 5. Task & Work Management
 6. Shopping List
 7. Photography
 8. Contactors
 9. Video service
 10. Blog
 11. Others

We want everything **working automatically** as our wish and we want **no repetitive work**.

So let IFTTT do it for us.

###2. How to use IFTTT
It's very easy to use IFTTT, first you need to know some basic concepts.
1. **Recipe** Recipe is one single rule for your Internet
2. **Channel** Channel is one of those services, including mobile operating system service.
  1. **Condition** Condition is the trigger for your action
  2. **Action** Action is what's triggerred to do

What you need to do is to **activate your channel** by authentication and authorization, then give condition and action as '**if this then that**'.

You may configure the condition and action in very details so you can get exact what you expect.
