---
layout: article
title: "React.js"
categories: hack
modified: 2015-02-04 12:27:31
tags: [tech]
toc: true
comments: true
image:
  teaser: react-js-400x250.jpg
---

I've read an [article](https://medium.com/@ericflo/facebook-just-taught-us-all-how-to-build-websites-51f1e7e996f2) on medium talking about Facebook using React.js to build websites. Having heard of React.js and reading some articles about it, I have not started to use it to build something. But words in this article really seduced me.

>In 2003, Brad Fitzpatrick released Memcached, and began talking about LiveJournal’s architecture (here’s a presentation from a few years later.) This became the prototype for the next generation of sites and apps, and is still largely the same way web apps are built today.

>In 2004, Google published a paper describing MapReduce. With Google’s public success with this programming model, and inspired by their paper, Hadoop was born. While Hadoop has evolved considerably, it’s now a staple of how large sites and apps process their data.

>In 2007, Amazon published the Dynamo paper which showed, in an understandable way, how databases and applications could be written to work together and scale linearly as new nodes are added to a cluster. From this concept, a bevy of databases like Cassandra and Riak were born, and are used by many of the largest apps in the world.

>In 2010, Twitter publicly switched to client-side templating, turning the server into something more like a simple API. Around the same time, DocumentCloud released Backbone.js, which packaged this concept up with a neat API, a crisp implementation, and clear documentation. While Twitter may have had a few hiccups five years ago, in practice this set off the next big transition, where today many apps are written to render on the client, and more are being converted to that style every day.

>In 2012, Google released version 1.0 of Angular.js. It provided a lot more structure than Backbone.js, and heavily emphasized testing and good development practices, while taking care of some of the boring parts of binding data and rendering content. Today, try looking for any web development job position, they all list Angular.js as the framework to know—its rise in popularity has been meteoric.

>What do all these have in common? Companies or startups, having learned hard lessons in production, found a way forward, and have shared their breakthroughs with the world.

>I believe this has happened again in 2015, this time with Facebook’s trio of React.js, Relay, and GraphQL. 

It compares React.js to lots of great techs in the last decade. Put this article aside, just dig up to know what React.js brings us.

##Build Composable Components
Coders love the line *do not repeat yourslef*. It's reasonable to build things with clear exact concept and can be used universally in specific area. People use words of language to think and it's hard to figure the edge of concept. But if you do classify things and organize your thoughts. You can find the basic elements of a domain, here, building websites.

>React is all about building reusable components. In fact, with React the only thing you do is build components. Since they're so encapsulated, components make code reuse, testing, and separation of concerns easy.

Based on the use of different websites, there are always components used with similar functions and purposes. Take blog site as an example:

* Navigation Bar
* Archives
* Tags
* Post
* Page
* Comment Box
* Header & Footer

And actually, some Blog platforms provide user-custom component to varying degrees. Indeed, components can be reusable in specific fields, like Game, Finance, Content-Presentaion. Similar use, slightly different appearance.

##Simple & Declarative
>Simply express how your app should look at any given point in time, and React will automatically manage all UI updates when your underlying data changes.

>When the data changes, React conceptually hits the "refresh" button, and knows to only update the changed parts.

React.js helps manage your Dom tree, update the changes, the most important, it only update the changed parts. This is really a great feature. Imagine using a Table Component carrying thousands of rows, after editing and saving, only the edited part will be updated, this surely tunes the performance if you want reload the page.

This is a official [tutorial](http://facebook.github.io/react/docs/tutorial.html) showing you how to write a comment box using React.js, it gives a general idea of these features above.

It's just a tutorial, so to learn deeper, you can try it in your project.




