---
layout: article
title: "Two Phase Commit"
date: 2015-01-04 15:34:21
categories: hack
---
##Basic Concept
>In transaction processing, databases, and computer networking, the two-phase commit protocol (2PC) is a type of atomic commitment protocol (ACP). It is a distributed algorithm that coordinates all the processes that participate in a distributed atomic transaction on whether to commit or abort (roll back) the transaction (it is a specialized type of consensus protocol).
see more in [Two-phase commit protocol](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two-phase_commit_protocol).

###Two Phases

####Commit request phase or voting phase

1. The coordinator sends a query to commit message to all cohorts and waits until it has received a reply from all cohorts.
2. The cohorts execute the transaction up to the point where they will be asked to commit. They each write an entry to their undo log and an entry to their redo log.
3. Each cohort replies with an agreement message (cohort votes Yes to commit), if the cohort's actions succeeded, or an abort message (cohort votes No, not to commit), if the cohort experiences a failure that will make it impossible to commit.

####Commit phase or Completion phase

#####Success
If the coordinator received an agreement message from all cohorts during the commit-request phase:

1. The coordinator sends a commit message to all the cohorts.
2. Each cohort completes the operation, and releases all the locks and resources held during the transaction.
3. Each cohort sends an acknowledgment to the coordinator.
4. The coordinator completes the transaction when all acknowledgments have been received.

#####Failure
If any cohort votes No during the commit-request phase (or the coordinator's timeout expires):

1. The coordinator sends a rollback message to all the cohorts.
2. Each cohort undoes the transaction using the undo log, and releases the resources and locks held during the transaction.
3. Each cohort sends an acknowledgement to the coordinator.
4. The coordinator undoes the transaction when all acknowledgements have been received.

##Demo
For situations that require multi-document transactions, you can implement two-phase commit in your application to provide support for these kinds of multi-document updates. Using two-phase commit ensures that data is consistent and, in case of an error, the state that preceded the transaction is recoverable. During the procedure, however, documents can represent pending data and states.

###[MongoDB](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/perform-two-phase-commits/)
Consider a scenario where you want to transfer funds from account A to account B. In a relational database system, you can subtract the funds from A and add the funds to B in a single multi-statement transaction. In MongoDB, you can emulate a two-phase commit to achieve a comparable result.

The examples in this tutorial use the following two collections:

1. A collection named accounts to store account information.
2. A collection named transactions to store information on the fund transfer transactions.

####Transfer Funds Between Accounts Using Two-Phase Commit
1. Retrieve the transaction to start.
2. Update transaction state to pending.
3. Apply the transaction to both accounts.
4. Update transaction state to applied.
5. Update both accounts’ list of pending transactions.
6. Update transaction state to done.

####Recovery Operations
The two-phase commit pattern allows applications running the sequence to resume the transaction and arrive at a consistent state. Run the recovery operations at application startup, and possibly at regular intervals, to catch any unfinished transactions.

The time required to reach a consistent state depends on how long the application needs to recover each transaction.

The following recovery procedures uses the lastModified date as an indicator of whether the pending transaction requires recovery; specifically, if the pending or applied transaction has not been updated in the last 30 minutes, the procedures determine that these transactions require recovery. You can use different conditions to make this determination.

#####Transactions in Pending State

To recover from failures that occur after step “Update transaction state to pending.” but before “Update transaction state to applied.“step, retrieve from the transactions collection a pending transaction for recovery. And resume from step “Apply the transaction to both accounts.

#####Transactions in Applied State

To recover from failures that occur after step “Update transaction state to applied.” but before “Update transaction state to done.“step, retrieve from the transactions collection an applied transaction for recovery. And resume from “Update both accounts’ list of pending transactions.

####Rollback Operations
In some cases, you may need to “roll back” or undo a transaction; e.g., if the application needs to “cancel” the transaction or if one of the accounts does not exist or stops existing during the transaction.

#####Transactions in Applied State
After the “Update transaction state to applied.” step, you should not roll back the transaction. Instead, complete that transaction and create a new transaction to reverse the transaction by switching the values in the source and the destination fields.

#####Transactions in Pending State
After the “Update transaction state to pending.” step, but before the “Update transaction state to applied.” step, you can rollback the transaction using the following procedure:

1. Update transaction state to canceling.
2. Undo the transaction on both accounts.
3. Update transaction state to canceled.

##Practice
